IV - THE APPRENTICE
- HUGO: Amicia, so we'll never be able to go back home?
- AMICIA: No.
It's too dangerous.
- HUGO: Are there rats there too?
- AMICIA: Maybe.
I... I don't know, Hugo.
- HUGO: I'm scared.
They'll find us when it gets dark.
- AMICIA: We'll be safe with Laurentius. Come on.
Up there. A windmill.
- HUGO: Is that Laurentius' farm?
- AMICIA: I hope so.
- HUGO: I've never seen a real windmill.
- AMICIA: If we're careful, you'll be seeing one very soon.
Hey! Hugo, where are you going?
- HUGO: Oh! Bubbles! Look at the bubbles!
- AMICIA: Yes, Hugo.
- HUGO: What is it?
- AMICIA: It could be a fish, a frog, I really don't know.
We don't have time for this right now. Come on.
- HUGO: But I've never seen a real frog.
(RIVER FLOWING)
Someone came here to read a book.
- AMICIA: Blood.
- HUGO: What happened?
- AMICIA: I don't know
But it didn't end well.
- HUGO: Perhaps...
... Perhaps there were rats.
Amicia.
Look!
It's one of the men that attacked the house.
- AMICIA: The Inquisition.
They're here.
- SOLDIER 1: How'd they do that?
They're only fucking animals.
- SOLDIER 2: Do I look like a rat?
How should I know?
- SOLDIER 1: Well... I'd say we'll never
get rid of these nests using stupid lime.
- SOLDIER 2: Whatever happens...
We have to get out of here
before the sun goes down.
They like the dark.
So back to business.
- SOLDIER 1: That's an odd sound.
Nah... Nothing.
Nothing here.
- HUGO: Amicia, look!
There's a bridge that leads to the farm.
- SOLDIER: What a waste of time!
The Grand Inquisitor should just tell us
what he really wants from us.
That noise...
What was it?
- SOLDIER 1: That should do it.
With that and the second barricade.
No one will ever get through.
- SOLDIER 2: I'm going to the bridge.
The cart will be back with the other barricade.
- AMICIA: (WHISPERING) We're trapped!
- HUGO: (WHISPERING) There's a hole in the wall.
- AMICIA: (WHISPERING) I'm too big.
You'll have to go in and open the window for me.
- HUGO: (WHISPERING) But they'll see me.
- AMICIA: (WHISPERING) I'll keep them busy. Trust me.
- SOLDIER: That noise...
Better go see what it was.
- AMICIA: (WHISPERING) Come on.
- HUGO: (WHISPERING) I'm going.
- SOLDIER: Nah. Nothing to report.
- AMICIA: Yes. Now it's my turn.
- SOLDIER: 'gain?
I've got to know for sure.
- AMICIA: (WHISPERING) Well done!
- HUGO: (WHISPERING) Amicia,
we have to get out of here.
- SOLDIER: Still nothing.
(CART WITH HORSE SOUNDS)
Forget it!
- SOLDIER: What's all the racket?
- AMICIA: Oh no! They've blocked off the farm.
- SOLDIER 1: Tell Lord Nicholas that the road is blocked.
Any person or vehicle that wants to get through
is to be stopped and searched.
- SOLDIER 2: And what are we looking for exactly?
- SOLDIER 1: A five-year-old kid.
Hugo de Rune.
Brown hair, blue eyes.
- HUGO: Are they talking about me? Why me?
- AMICIA: Shh... Not now.
- SOLDIER 1: ...Very important, I was told.
Lord Nicholas has his orders direct from the Grand Inquisitor himself.
So keep your eyes peeled.
- HUGO: Careful! There's a guard in there.
- AMICIA: Yes.
- SOLDIER: Where was that noise coming from? Over there!
- AMICIA: Careful how you land.
- HUGO: Yes.
Amicia.
- AMICIA: What?
- HUGO: What did I do? Why are they looking for me?
- AMICIA: You didn't do anything.
It's...
They're the ones who did something.
- HUGO: If they catch us, will they hurt us?
- AMICIA: They're not going to catch us, alright?
- HUGO: Alright.
- AMICIA: Hugo?
Hugo.
Where are you?
Ah... Hugo, it's not funny.
Hugo.
- HUGO: Oh, you've found me. (LAUGHTER)
- AMICIA: Did you really think this is the time to be playing games?
- HUGO: But...
- AMICIA: Do you want they guards to catch you?
Don't do that again!
- HUGO: Sorry.
- AMICIA: (WHISPERING) They're here.
- HUGO: Hey, piggy. You should hide.
It's dangerous.
(DISTANT CHATTER)
Oh... They're everywhere.
- SOLDIER: I did...
I did hear something over there.
- SOLDIER: Well, that sound...
Came from over there, didn't it?
I...uh...
No.
There's nothing there.
- SOLDIER 1: Hey... Saw one of ours along the trail earlier.
Dead as a doornail.
Shouldn't we bury him?
- SOLDIER 2: Had he been bitten?
- SOLDIER 1: Yeah.
- SOLDIER 2: Did you touch him?
- SOLDIER 1: Nah.
- SOLDIER 2: Good. Because when a rat bites you
it poisons your blood.
You'll get boils all over
and everyone around you can get it and die too.
That's why it's called The Bite.
- SOLDIER 1: Well, then...
Think we'll just leave where he is.
- SOLDIER 1: What's all the noise?
- SOLDIER 2: What was that noise?
- SOLDIER 1: Well... it was nothing.
- SOLDIER 2: ...back to camp.
Shit, it's nearly dark.
- SOLDIER: That noise...
I think it came from over there.
- SOLDIER: What was that?
Strange...
- HUGO: So they can't see us anymore.
- AMICIA: No, they can't.
(EFFORT GRUNTS)
(HORN, CART, HORSE SOUNDS)
- SOLDIER: FALL BACK! EVERYONE FALLS BACK!
- AMICIA: Fall back? What's happening?
Hugo...
(HIGH PITCH NOISE)
We can't stop. Not here.
- HUGO: I feel... funny.
- AMICIA: Come on.
You'll be able to rest
when we get to Laurentius' place.
- HUGO: Ah... my head...
It hurts...
- AMICIA: I don't know what to do, Hugo.
What would Mummy do?
- HUGO: Give me medicine.
- AMICIA: I can carry you.
That's the best I can do.
Come on. Climb up.
- HUGO: Mummy says I shouldn't leave the house, you know.
- AMICIA: I know.
- HUGO: That must be why I feel all funny.
- AMICIA: You're just tired.
- HUGO: I miss her.
- AMICIA: At least you were allowed to see her.
- HUGO: Huh?
- AMICIA: Nothing.
(CALMING & RELAXING MUSIC PLAYING)
Laurentius' mill. We're nearly there.
- HUGO: Will he shut me inside again?
Like Mummy.
- AMICIA: He'll get us to safety.
- HUGO: Alright.
It's true that it's dangerous out there.
But...
Sometimes, it's fun, too.
- AMICIA: You'll get better one day.
- HUGO: Are those dead animals?
- AMICIA: What on earth happened here?
We're going to have to be careful now.
You better get down, Hugo.
- HUGO: Urgh... It's getting in my shoes.
- AMICIA: Urgh...
I don't believe it.
(GROUND SHAKING AND BREAKING)
- AMICIA: No! No, no, no!
The torch! Get to the torch!
Calm down. It's alright. They can't reach us.
Come on. Let's go.
(MUSIC INTENSIFIES)
(RATS SQUEAKING)
(GROUND SHAKING AND BREAKING)
- HUGO: The night is making them come out!
- AMICIA: We'll be alright if we stay away from them.
(GROUND SHAKING AND BREAKING)
- HUGO: We need fire.
- AMICIA: We have to get out of here!
(GROUND SHAKING AND BREAKING)
- HUGO: Amicia, there's some fire... Up there!
- AMICIA: Let's go! The torch! Quickly! Hurry!
- HUGO: They're right behind us!
- AMICIA: Come on! Faster!
Climb up. I'll help you.
- HUGO: Right.
(RATS SQUEAKING)
- AMICIA: That was close.
That mud again.
We'll never get through.
Urgh... Good Lord!
- HUGO: Are they really...
...all dead?
- AMICIA: They've been slaughtered...
...by the Inquisition, probably.
- HUGO: I'm going to be sick.
- AMICIA: Let's go.
- HUGO: Yes.
- AMICIA: Come on. Here we go again.
Help me push.
- HUGO: Uh huh.
(EFFORT GRUNTS)
- AMICIA: Come one! (GRUNTS) Nearly there.
- HUGO: Amicia, why did they kill...
(EFFORT GRUNTS)
...the pigs?
- AMICIA: Maybe... (GRUNTS) ...to contain the rats here.
(EFFORT GRUNTS)
- HUGO: It's very...
...very heavy.
I... I...
- AMICIA: Don't...
(EFFORT GRUNTS)
...talk...
...push...
(EFFORT GRUNTS)
(PANTING)
- AMICIA: We did it!
We mad it!
- HUGO: Hello, Laurentius?
- AMICIA: Shh... Hugo!
- HUGO: But...
- AMICIA: What if it's not Laurentius?
Huh? Did you think of that?
- HUGO: Sorry.
(MAIN THEME MUSIC PLAYING CALMLY)
It's really dark.
Maybe there's a monster in it.
(MAIN THEME MUSIC PLAYING CALMLY)
- AMICIA: Locked.
We have to get in somehow.
(MAIN THEME MUSIC PLAYING CALMLY)
- HUGO: Oh... You're still alive.
I'm sorry about your friends.
- AMICIA: Hugo...
You go in there and open the door for me quickly.
And be very careful, alright?
- HUGO: Yes.
- AMICIA: Good.
- HUGO: Ughh... It smells funny.
- AMICIA: It's alcohol. From the stills.
(COUGHING SOUND)
- HUGO: There's someone there.
- AMICIA: Let's go and see.
(COUGHING SOUND)
- BOY: Who are you?
- AMICIA: Magister Laurentius!
- BOY: Stop right there. He's contagious.
- LAURENTIUS: Hugo...
...here?
- AMICIA: The Inquisition came...
We've lost everything.
There was nothing I could do... I...
- LAURENTIUS: Of course.
They... came for him.
An...
An evil...
Ancient evil...
...courses through your family's veins.
In his blood.
Your Mother...
...and I...
...attempted to slow its progress.
But...
...ever since The Great Break...
...the process has...
...quickened.
You must...
...protect him, Amicia.
Continue your Mother's work.
- AMICIA: Me?
But how?
My parents tried and now they're both dead.
Leave me alone!
(GROUND SHAKING AND BREAKING)
- BOY: They're here.
- LAURENTIUS: The rats...
...are...
...dangerous.
but... disorganised.
The Inquisition, however,...
...they seek the boy tirelessly.
We have to disappear.
Head to the Château d'Ombrage.
L-Lucas... Go to the barn.
You will finish... the Ignifer.
- LUCAS: Don't try to talk.
I will prove myself.
I'm sorry about your parents.
But... you're not alone anymore.
We have to move fast. You can help me make the Ignifer.
It will protect us from the rats.
- AMICIA: Come, Hugo.
I don't want you to stay here.
- LUCAS: The stuff is in the barn.
Come on.
Oh no.
- AMICIA: (SIGHS) What are we going to do?
- LUCAS: They've managed to get in.
(RATS SQUEAKING)
(GROUND BREAKING)
- AMICIA: I'll find a way to keep them busy.
- LUCAS: Oh. The hams.
Good idea.
- AMICIA: Ah... But they're frightened of the light.
- LUCAS: The lantern.
It's alright. Do it.
- AMICIA: There. Ah, sorry.
- LUCAS: Dah. Don't worry.
- AMICIA: That's it. Hugo, give me your hand.
- HUGO: No!
- AMICIA: Very well! But... stay close to me.
- LUCAS: Are you two okay?
- AMICIA: It's been...
...a long trip.
- LUCAS: Oh no! They've come back.
- AMICIA: They're everywhere!
- LUCAS: We have to reach the back of the barn.
We can't leave without the Ignifer.
How are we going to do it?
We need meat...
Dead or alive...
- AMICIA: We can use this.
- LUCAS: I see. Let me help you.
- HUGO: Are we going to feed him?
- AMICIA: You could say that.
- HUGO: Yes! Dinner time, piggy! Yum yum!
- LUCAS: That's it.
- HUGO: Make sure you chew properly
or you'll get stomach ache.
- AMICIA: We have to make sure it stays.
- LUCAS: I'll close the door.
(DOOR SHUTS)
- LUCAS: There's a ladder down the side.
Come on.
- AMICIA: Let's go, Hugo.
Hugo, listen...
You can sulk if you like, but... stay close.
- HUGO: (ANNOYING SIGH)
- LUCAS: (EFFORT GRUNTS)
- AMICIA: Climb up.
- LUCAS: Ah... The light.
- AMICIA: Yes... Hugo... Er...
Look away, please.
- HUGO: Why?
No, Amicia! What are you doing?
(PIG SCREAMING AND SQUEALING)
- AMICIA: I'm sorry!
- HUGO: Stop! They're eating it! It's still alive!
- AMICIA: We have no choice, Hugo!
We have to get the rats away!
- HUGO: It's horrible!
You're just like all the others.
- AMICIA: Hugo!
(SOFTLY) There was no other way...
Come on.
This way.
- LUCAS: Yes. Of course.
- HUGO: Poor pig...
- LUCAS: Come on.
Over here.
(WOOD CREAKING)
Watch your steps.
- AMICIA: This is more than just a doctor's lab.
- LUCAS: My Master is also and above all a great alchemist.
Your name is Amicia, right?
I'm Lucas.
I would like to show you something.
But it requires alcohol and sulfur.
There must be some around here.
Tell me when you found them.
- AMICIA: Urm... Alright.
Alcohol and sulfur.
"Leviter extractam sic..."
Latin?
- HUGO: What are you doing?
- LUCAS: An alchemical blend.
I'm dissolving the reagents.
- HUGO: Oh??
- LUCAS: Oh... it's... uh... just... alchemy.
- HUGO: Lucas, why am I not ill like Laurentius?
- LUCAS: He was bitten by a rat.
You weren't.
- HUGO: And... Is he going to die?
- AMICIA: Demons.
- LUCAS: Hey...
I'll do everything to make sure it doesn't happen.
- AMICIA: Looks like they spent quite a bit of time here.
This oven...
It must be what they call an athanor.
Alcohol. Sulfur. That's everything.
Here you go, Lucas.
- LUCAS: Right.
Now you have to mix them.
Do it slowly. It's not dangerous.
- AMICIA: Alright.
So... this is it?
(GROUND BREAKING)
- HUGO: Rats!
- AMICIA: Oh... no! No! We're stuck!
- LUCAS: Not yet. The Ignifer, Amicia. It's time.
Aim for the embers at the centre of the room.
- AMICIA: Alright.
Wow.
- HUGO: Oh...
It makes fire.
- AMICIA: Did... Did I do that?
Did I just really do alchemy?
- LUCAS: Yes... Your mixture was perfect.
Like mother, like daughter.
You know what...
I'll show you how to create other projectiles.
It will be really useful.
- AMICIA: I'd love to! Thank you!
- LUCAS: I've finished my mixes.
We have to go back to Laurentius.
Amicia, you should go ahead.
(RATS SQUEAKING)
- AMICIA: Rats. Get back!
- LUCAS: The Ignifer. Throw it on the embers.
- AMICIA: Please don't blow up in my face.
(RATS SQUEAKING)
You go first.
There's a lot of them.
- LUCAS: Laurentius...
- AMICIA: I'll clear the way.
Follow me.
- LUCAS: Very well.
- AMICIA: Come on!
- HUGO: Leave me alone.
- AMICIA: Hugo, listen...
About earlier...
I-I just wanted to tell you that... I'm
(GROUND BREAKING)
- LUCAS: No! Amicia, the rats!
- AMICIA: The house has gone dark!
- LUCAS: No, NO!
MASTER!!
- AMICIA: Lucas, wait!
- LUCAS: The distilling tanks!
(EXPLODING)
- AMICIA: Look out!!
- LUCAS: Do something!
- AMICIA: We have to leave! Now!
- LUCAS: Master...
- AMICIA: Hey! Stop!
We need you!
- HUGO: Look! The horse!
- AMICIA: Time to go!
Hugo! Lucas!
Run! We need that horse!
- HUGO: They're everywhere!
- AMICIA: LUCAS?
- LUCAS: I'm here!
- AMICIA: Where does this trail lead to?
Lucas, where's this taking us?
- LUCAS: To the river.
- HUGO: We're surrounded!
- AMICIA: Urh... Which way? Where now?
- LUCAS: There. There's a boat over there.
Just past the mill.
- AMICIA: So let's go!
(GROUND BREAKING)
- AMICIA: No, no, NO! RUN!
- HUGO: It's happening again!
(GROUND BREAKING)